===============================================================================
CITY INTERIOR WINDOWS release a
===============================================================================

gaoneng                                    January 16, 2006
http://nwvault.ign.com/View.php?view=Hakpaks.Detail&id=6480

===============================================================================



===============================================================================
 TABLE OF CONTENT
===============================================================================
 
 Quick Installation
 For Players
 For Builders
 Content
 Redistribution
 To Do's
 Acknowledgements
 Version History
 Contact



===============================================================================
 QUICK INSTALLATION
===============================================================================

There are three files included in this archive. Simply unrar everything to a
temporary folder and drop the following files into the appropriate folder in
your NWN directory. This is typically located at C:\Program Files\NWN\

    gao_tinwindows.hak                        -> to the \hak folder

    DEMO - Castle Interior Windows.mod        -> to the \modules folder

    city interior windows readme.txt          -> you're reading it now :)

Once these files are in the correct location, you should be able to see
"DEMO - City Interior Windows" as an available and playable module when you
launch the game and go under Custom Modules.



===============================================================================
 FOR PLAYERS
===============================================================================

If you are reading this, it probably means City Interior Windows is a required
resource for a module you are playing. Simply follow the installation guide
above and you are ready to play.

The DEMO module is optional and not required, although there are a couple of
puzzles inside if you are really bored and looking for things to do. :)

You can also skip the rest of this readme.



===============================================================================
 FOR BUILDERS
===============================================================================

Simply follow the installation guide above and these additional instructions
below to gain access to the City Interior Windows content.

Open up your module, go to Edit -> Module Properties -> Custom Content and add

    gao_tinwindows

to your custom content list. As the order is not important in this case, you
can put this hak anywhere even if you have other haks in your list.

Click OK to rebuild.

Once your module is successfully rebuilt, you should see several new entries in
your tile palette when you paint a City Interior area.

If you want to add City Interior Windows to an existing module with (or
without) City Interior areas created using the default palette (a.k.a "I've
been working on my module for months, can I add this now?"), you can safely do
so, provided there are no other City Interior modifications in your module. As
a general precautionary measure, you should always backup your module before
modifying the custom content list. City Interior Windows is an add-on and an
expansion, and apart from the palette and information files required to add in
the new tiles, none of the standard resources are modified or overriden, so
your old areas will not be affected.

You should only be concerned if you are attempting to use City Interior Windows
in conjunction with other City Interior tileset modifications not made by me.
In that case, you will need to consolidate your own set, itp, and 2da to avoid
any resource conflicts.



===============================================================================
 CONTENT
===============================================================================

City Interior Windows adds 178 new custom tiles to Bioware's City Interior
tileset.

Once you have correctly installed City Interior Windows into your module, you
should see the following new entries in your tileset palette when using the
City Interior tileset.

    [ Terrain/Crosser ]
    Window
    Home

    [ Groups ]
    Livingroom 2 with Window 1x2
    Livingroom 1 with Window 1x2
    Kitchen Room 2 with Window 1x2
    Kitchen Room 1 with Window 1x2
    Inn Room 2 with Window 1x2

    [ Features ]
    Vista Sea
    Vista Rural Winter
    Vista Rural
    Vista Desert
    Vista City Ground Level
    Porthole 3
    Porthole 2
    Porthole 1
    Home Window
    Home Corner Stairs 3
    Home Corner Stairs 2
    Home Corner Stairs 1
    Home Corner Exit 2
    Home Corner Exit 1

Following are descriptions of what these new features do.


[ window ]
Window is a new crosser you can use to punch actual holes in the walls to
create real windows. This crosser will work on all terrains and crossers.

Each terrain has a unique window design of its own. And unlike the rest of the
terrain types, windows for the Home terrain, the Corridor crosser, and the
Doorway crosser, are designed to fit back-to-back. You can make use of this
property to create non-trespassable internal windows and partition walls that
allow direct line of sight for vision, spells and range attacks.


[ home ]
Home is a simple new terrain derived from the 2x2 Interiors. Paint it like you
would any other normal terrain.


[ vistas ]
This is the new scenery control system for City Interior Windows. These special
features allow you to replace the default urbanscape with views of your choice.

    Vista Rural                rural hills with animated waterfalls
    Vista Rural Winter         rural winter hills with animated waterfalls
    Vista Desert               desert dunes
    Vista Sea                  ocean with animated waters *
    Vista City Ground Level    lower level view of default urbanscape **

To reset back to the default view, simply remove the window and repaint a new
one.

 * If your toolset/game crashes when you attempt to view this, then your system
   does not support Shiny Water. You must disable this option in your Advanced
   Video Settings in the in-game control panel.
** The default view shows more of the sky, and is more suitable for upper
   level interiors.

Note that all interior areas are Always Night by default. This prevents the
Day/Night cycling from happening. If you want these views to cycle between day
and night, make sure you change the Day/Night Cycle setting in the Visual tab
under Area Properties to Cycle Day and Night. Note also that the default
daytime lighting for all those interior presets are very dark. You will need to
change the Sun color or turn on Main Light 1 for all tiles during the day.


[ diagonal walls and corridors]
If you start painting new City Interior terrains, you will notice the corners
are no longer always 90 degrees straight corners. You will sometimes get
diagonal 45 degrees walls instead. These new tiles are designed to let you
create irregularly shaped interiors.

This feature is available for some corridor tiles as well, so now you can have
corridors that cut across an area diagonally.


[ furniture-free tiles ]
You will also notice many of the tiles now have furniture-free variants. These
new tiles are designed to let you create spacious uncluttered interiors.


[ sleepable beds ]
Beds in the windowed groups are walkable, so you can actually sleep on them.
Refer to the demonstration module for a sample setup if you are not sure how
they can be used. If you need sleepable beds for the rest of the standard
groups and features, there already are plenty such packages on the vault. They
should be fully compatible with City Interior Windows if they are override
based, i.e. if they are designed to replace the existing standard groups.


[ other features ]
The rest of the features should be quite intuitive.


In case you do not already know, there is a very easy way for you to cycle
through the available models for a particular tile systematically. First, make
sure you are in Terrain Selection mode (which you should be if you are painting
tiles). Press the Escape key on your keyboard to clear the paintbrush. Now move
your mouse pointer over to the tile you want to change. Then press and hold the
Shift key on your keyboard and right-click on the tile to start cycling through
the tiles systematically. Unlike the random Eraser tool, this method allows you
to control the rotation and exact model for any tile directly. So you can use
this method to gain access to all the new diagonal walls and furniture-free
tiles (and the default tiles of course) easily. Try it.



===============================================================================
 REDISTRIBUTION
===============================================================================

[ for pw/module builders ]
If you want to redistribute the content of City Interior Windows as part of
your PW/module-specific hak, you may freely do so, as long as proper credits
are given. That means, the following information

    City Interior Windows
    gaoneng
    http://nwvault.ign.com/View.php?view=Hakpaks.Detail&id=6480

must be displayed conspicuously somewhere in your documentation and download
page. These are the project's full title, my community profile name, and the
url to my download site. The url can be embedded into the project's title as a
hyperlink if you want it to.


[ for combo-packers ]
If you want to redistribute the content of City Interior Windows as part of a
generic combo-pack, wholesale, modified or expanded, you may freely do so as
long as you adhere to these guidelines.

+ you give proper credits, as described in the section for PW/Module Builders
  above
+ you wait at least two months after the initial release date of this project
  before publishing your combo-pack
+ you include this entire readme, complete and unabridged, in your download


If you need places to advertise your project, feel free to do so on the message
board. And please vote if you like this package. :)



===============================================================================
 TO DO'S
===============================================================================

There are not much left to do.

[ broken shadows ]
There are some minor shadow issues with some of the tiles. These are only
apparent when you walk close to them with a dynamic light source, such as a
Torch. These are not game-breaking, but are merely minor aesthetic issues. I am
fully aware of what went wrong with them, and I will fix these as soon as I get
the chance to.

[ more diagonal walls ]
Thinking of making a few more diagonal-on-both-sides walls, and maybe implement
support for all doorways/corridor permutation. If you like this feature, do
post a comment on the message board. I'll feel more inclined to make things if
I know there are people who want them. :)

[ reposition main light 2 ]
Many of the windowed tiles have their main light 2's positioned right outside
of the windows. Initially, this was intended to simulate natural lights
streaming in from the exterior. However, I have noticed that these tilelights
do not cast shadows on their own geometries, which result in really odd shadow-
casting patterns. Considering relocating these lights back to their original
positions in the interior. Any thoughts on this welcomed as well.

[ redo sea view ]
There's something odd about the ocean view that is causing a black triangle to
appear in the middle of the view. Not really sure what is causing it.
Considering redoing that particular skybox.

And as I mentioned on the vault, if there are additional features you wish to
see, or if you discover any other bugs, do leave a message on the board.



===============================================================================
 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
===============================================================================

Bioware
http://nwn.bioware.com/
Tileset base models are from the standard resource pool, with all extra
modifications made by me of course. Textures for skyboxes are derived from
printed screenshots of standard tilesets. Minimaps are modified from default
textures.

ThallionStelani and Michael Darkangel
http://nwvault.ign.com/files/hakpacks/data/1072675799655.shtml
The skyboxes for rural and desert views feature slopes from Michael Darkangel's
rework of ThallionStelani's Hills and Homes. Look closer if you have not
notice. :)



===============================================================================
 VERSION HISTORY
===============================================================================

January 16, 2006    release a
first release (almost final)



===============================================================================
 CONTACT
===============================================================================

While I've thoroughly tested every single tile I made, I can only conclude that
these tiles work as intended on my machine. If you encounter any odd issue,
please submit a bug report with as much details as possible.

All general feedback, bug reports, ideas and suggestions can posted on the
message board directly at

    http://nwvault.ign.com/View.php?view=Hakpaks.Detail&id=6480

If for some reasons you cannot post on the vault, you may send me a Private
Message on Bioware forums. My account name is

    gaoneng

Private and confidential agendas can be mailed to me at

    gaoneng [at] yahoo [dot] com



erick d
